# Setting up a local project with `uv`

There are several options for managing Python packages on a local system.
You can use any you want. Our examples will use `uv`.

### Prerequisites
* Linux/macOS/WSL shell
* Git repository

---

### Step-by-Step Instructions

#### 0. Install `uv`, if needed

Make sure you have the `uv` tool. It's probably not installed unless you did it manually sometime in the past.

    curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

#### 1. Create a `uv` project

Assuming your repository will have one python project in it, you'll want to initialize the project for `uv`'s management.

    cd your-repository-root
    uv init .
    
If you don't want the `README.md` and `main.py` to be created, use

    uv init . --bare
    

#### 3. Add requirements

For each package that your project uses directly, you need to add it to the list of dependencies. `uv` will add it to the dependencies list and install it in the python virtual environment.

    uv add numpy pandas matplotlib matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn

#### 4. Run with project environment

Whenever you run a Python file, do so from the directory where the `uv` init work happened. This will automatically use the virtual environment.

    uv run main.py

#### 5. Working with `git`

Be sure to add/commit these files:

- `pyproject.toml`
- `uv.lock`
- `.python-version`

Be sure to ignore these files `.gitignore`

- `.venv/`
- `__pycache__/`
- `.uv/`

    
After cloning/pulling the repo, update the local installation with:

    uv sync


